in an academic setting one of the most
important forms of bias is so-called
publication bias now what does this mean
it means that if you did a bunch of
studies if you undertook 10 different
research projects probably only the
research that had a very decisive
outcome would be published now there may
be different reasons for that it may be
that if the donor is paying for the
research don't like the outcomes of the
study they're going to put it on a shelf
they're not going to try to publish it
or or promote it or let anyone know
about it um but it may also just be an
aspect of human nature that you know you
want to publish a study that proves
something shocking or surprising or new
that shows some very clear and decisive
results good bad or otherwise and if you
have a study where the results are kind
of murky or conflicted the data didn't
turn out the way you wanted it to and
that may simply not get published at all
this is true in the social sciences this
is not merely the medical science this
is true I think even in something like
philosophy or God knows anyone again do
I mean something like Buddhist
philosophy publications of Buddhism
publication bias is unbelievably strong
unbelievably you know this okay filters
into something like a business business
studies context you know people pay a
lot of money to get an MBA get a diploma
in business school and a lot of these
business schools will bring in speakers
successful businessmen people who start
at their own companies and one after the
other maybe every week or every month
they've they're bringing in someone
who's a former student of the business
school went on to great success and you
got to ask the question where are the
failures the only way failure creeps
into that discourse is if one of the
guys who was successful talks about the
failures he had leading up to his
success where the people who took the
gamble and the business was wiped out by
whatever in Clements circumstances and
who are now you know had to move in back
into their parents home after they
graduated from business school and tried
to try to be entrepreneur
if you just look at the rate at which
even companies on the stock market get
delisted that's those are companies that
have achieved a very very high level of
stability and success to get listed on
the stock market the rate at which they
get delisted its tells you something
something important about failure and
the important role of you know learning
from failure you can't just learn from
success you got to learn from failure in
this life also now I've said many times
that the nature of YouTube and the vegan
demi-monde within YouTube everybody is
playing a different game by different
rules so there's no common sense of what
success means or what failure means I
got here three examples of females on
YouTube vegans who are you know
presenting some combination of what I
eat in the day videos them in bikinis
fitness videos you know they're
exploiting their beauty to whatever
extent on Instagram and they all have in
the tens of thousands and hundreds of
thousands of subscribers so Angelina
Draper over 50,000 subscribers um Hollie
Wakeham over 140,000 subscribers Meg's
lemansky about eighty thousand
subscribers now is this successor as
this failure well I don't know you got
eighty thousand subscribers Magnus your
most recent video has only three
thousand viewers in two weeks Hollie
Wakeham over a hundred thousand one
hundred forty thousand subscribers her
last video has only 2,500 viewers the
one before that about 5,000 so very very
small percentage of the people who
clicked on the subscribe button think
your content is worth watching now you
know some people in this category again
is this success or is it failure Claire
Michelle is somebody who's
really taking some big risks in life
because she dropped out of school she
has no job she has no career she has
nothing going for except for YouTube and
Instagram so on YouTube she has now
about eighty thousand subscribers and
her most recent videos of about 20,000
viewers and it's the same mix diet
exercise personal beauty her in
revealing clothes that kind of that kind
of content now I really think you know
what is success and what is failure for
any of these people if they were playing
to actually earn their living by coming
on YouTube I mean again they're all
vegans coming on YouTube and Talia vigas
we talking about their life they're all
failures all them you know it's like
it's like that old catch phrase from the
the seatbelts movement you know car
safety movement you know there's a
famous book titled unsafe at any speed
you can be a failure at any size you can
be a failure in any schedule you know um
I do think that for some of us the
content of what we're sharing whether
that's content about veganism or content
about our own lives justifies the effort
we're making on social media whether we
have 200 viewers per video or 2,000 or
20,000 but there's this very strange
form of publication bias here on YouTube
you normally hear people when they make
a lot of noise when they have a lot of
optimism about the channel and then you
don't hear about them when they just
stopped uploading or disappear or delete
their channel entirely right that
doesn't make any noise you know certain
types of conflict and controversy make
you pay attention to a channel briefly
and quite likely during that controversy
that channel maybe it's briefly getting
a hundred thousand viewers per video and
you see all this optimism and you know
within veganism it's a very specific on
its optimism that you can earn your
living spreading the vegan message you
can you can you can make lifestyle
activism your full-time job and that
does that very often involves bikinis
and
you know what I eat in the day videos
showing off cuisine you're cooking and
so on this is a black beans job's tears
and mushrooms I guess you'd call these
shitake mushrooms by the way no sauce
just the ingredients putting a putting a
pressure cooker anyway um you know there
was definitely this this very clear
pattern of come on camera be yourself
get the adoration of millions of people
start earning a hundred thousand dollars
a year saves the planet save the animals
it's this very compelling package of you
know personal ego driven goals fame
money etc and you know just people
appreciating of your beauty and those
humanitarian and political goals thats
really ought to say in this video I now
know I've been in this game long enough
I can think of examples of channels
where I really valued their content
whether was their content about veganism
in a strict sense or if it was their
content just talking about their lives
because you know I like a mix of both I
like real talk and you know I don't know
some of those people I wish they hadn't
quit even if they were only reaching 200
viewers or 500 viewers whatever it was
and there are all kinds other people who
are reaching 20,000 viewers but to me
they're content isn't just garbage their
content creation is obviously having a
really negative impact on their lives
it's bringing them into a very
short-term way of thinking where they're
dropping at a school in quitting their
job and not building any kind of career
because they believe they're going to be
in the tiny minority of people like
vegan gains who actually pay their rent
with their youtube income that's it man
unsafe at any speed a failure on social
media can happen at any size